hello welcome to the package managers
weekly sink I am picking brain your host
we're gonna go around the room and say
what we did last week do you next mobile
docked on and then any other updates
before we start can I have a look take
her please your first oh I didn't update
my name it just his name sorry yes so
the past couple of weeks I've been off
with flu I still have a sinus infection
which is hurts here and here and it's a
little bit debilitating but I can
actually hold a thought in my brain for
a reasonable amount of time now so like
I can start to catch up again and
yesterday then kind of went back through
and looked at a lot of different things
that have been talked about and trying
to kind of get back up to speed again
this the next thing that I was going to
do was pick up where I kind of left off
before going to Lisbon with the the
brainstorm that I made of all the
different pieces and try and turn that
into something that was a little bit
more useful and had a little bit more
context than just a load of tiny little
boxes maybe starting with like a video
talk through of it to myself and then
turn that into some chunks of separate
pieces after listening to the call last
week Eric was talking about like some of
the different components of package
managers and how that might be useful to
break apart some of the work and I think
I have that kind of encoded into this
this brainstorm it just doesn't kind of
describe itself well because you need a
fair amount of context to understand
what all the different boxes mean so
that's what I was thinking of doing
along with trying to squeeze out a blog
post about the package managers working
group or at least a draft also can be
off on Friday and Monday for Easter
holidays as their bank holidays in the
UK so it was it's gonna be a bit of a
slow week I think other than that oh and
I did send a couple of PRS to update J's
ipfs on NPM on ipfs and I also noticed
the I act on ipfs server the demon had
fallen over stopped working and I hadn't
set up any kind of up style on it so it
just didn't come back and it was still
sinking are thinking every four hours
it just didn't publish anywhere to tell
anyone why it's IP NS was so no one
could ever resolve any version of that
data but I definitely to find someone to
help make that more than just one server
running that thing because it does not
handle anything particularly well right
now other than the ER sinking an initial
adding so I don't think the
infrastructure team has enough capacity
to do that at the moment looking at how
responsive they've been to other things
at least on github but it's not like
it's incredibly pressing either so I
think it is a case of it just needs more
servers rather than there's something
like
performance problem that's that's
breaking it it just doesn't have enough
people sharing the data before actually
becomes useful so I'll put a pin in that
until after Easter I guess might be
worth chatting to Hector and the cluster
T mollies nodding so I guess yes just
just in terms of if if infrastructure
don't have the bandwidth to help you
right now but Hector has some experience
of running multiple nodes that have a
ton of data on and it might be something
to factor into the experimentation
adding cluster into the pile so that
it's even easier to say we are mirroring
the same data yeah yeah that'd be great
I will I will add that to my note exact
same suggestion it was like well sounds
like either we can run this on pin bot
with many many duplications or we can
try and you know use it more as a test
case of like how do we do this is that
everyone else can can do it as well not
just people who have their own magical
huge clusters did I've tried a number of
times to get pim bot to to pin the thing
it never works because it's humongous
and I guess is recursively trying to do
everything if you just give it a name
it's gonna timeout before if there's
definitely some kind of reasonable
timeout on it rather than it just it
does eventually come back usually it's
like two days later and like sorry I
didn't successfully do your thing for
you it's definitely a good candidate for
its own cluster rather than convulse
thing that's also there's an open issue
on the go if it's Reaper about being
able to shard pins so if you pin a bag
it will pin all the nodes underneath the
dag everywhere
whereas what they want to be able to do
is say well I need like stylist no but
then they need pen like two levels deep
and I miss node over here we'll take
this one and pin Taylor
this IP person over here will take this
note just downloading pin to those feet
but they never never really landed that
pin you know I think if you try and wait
you're trying to pin is bigger than the
space I located on the cluster for each
node you're in trouble I don't suppose
there's that a tiki way that you can
kind of like preload individual cluster
machines bye-bye like SCP the IP FS
directory or some part of the DFS
directory on to a number of without
because it obviously a parity can't be
the same on all of the different
clusters you change the PID everything
else is fine is all is there like a
subject I I've knowed it but is there a
subdirectory that can just be like
plunked or is it copy everything and
then run a command that will change the
pair ID like you can you can use a
regular IP FS server in ipfs cluster so
if you just do your ipfs commands on
that cluster the data should be there
so so maybe you need like a cluster you
can log into to just do some of these
manual commands me to sort of preload
the data generally they're deploying
these things with kubernetes and you
trying to prevent people from logging
into them but I'm sure they could custom
configure that I can make some kind of
kubernetes command that says copy some
of this data on deployment okay cool
that's all for me all right so last week
I was trying to look into my PFS issues
the first my littell is that the like
copying the update registry is command
is really slow so the registry and what
it does is it copies down the dag node
that is the first root or at least the
root of the NPM registry on the mirrors
we should be super quick because I won
no but it isn't because of those way
warden thinks it should and I tries to
start they starts loading the whole day
which is why so that because it's like
so I changed it to not do that and now
it's much much faster but I was trying
to I was trying to do in a nice way and
I'm just so sick of looking at the MF s
code it's just squirrely squirrely pool
streams everywhere but now that I peeled
D Garibaldi has landed the async/await
API can refactor the whole things of the
async/await so that's what we've been
doing and I'm down to like my last three
failing tests and there's so much better
it's just so much easier to read you so
much you just wanders down what's going
on so I'm going to try and learn that in
the next day also not a few days and I
probably me for the rest of the week
any questions
so that's person for the updates Holly
do you want to us about one quick little
other update and I forgot to write down
eric worre pork is coming over to London
I think he's literally on a plane right
now and will be there for a few days so
I'm going to go up on Thursday and hang
out with him and maybe that'll end up
colliding with some table flip people
I'm not sure what part of London he
needs to be in but I'll just come up for
the day and then brainstorm some things
and see how that goes you guys gonna
come and hire a chair because I don't be
super rad jail aka table flip H key for
those sorry we don't invite people to
prison there is a nice present in
chapter mallet if anyone wants to visit
the Kray twins were kept there for a for
a while
this is an insight channel
let's pull up year about to code meds
talking about some kind of NPM when I
live as an app mr. no well I mean yes
that too but the Geo : yeah we should
you were looking into this I'm quite
interesting oh yeah
I haven't performed the work yet merely
teed it up for someone who might be
interested in performing the work in as
much as agent of user commented on the
thread where we were looking into NPM my
PFS the app edition with a why not
examine lower hanging fruit such as
integrating with existing MPN
transparent proxy software so something
that you could run for a team of
developers and have it casually the
modules for you
and Vedek sure seems to be gaining in
popularity and is notably used by some
hip projects in the JavaScript world so
it's likely it lit suddenly like more
people are aware of it than I realized
and there is a nice use case whereby
sports plug-ins for its storage layer
and it seems like we could do a good job
of writing an IP FS plugin for it and
then stand up a few instances of it or
at least one for us and encourage others
to do the same and start to get did a
nice sort of team level effect of if
every team starts to have a cache of the
subset of NPM that they use and that
they in a pool of production instances
sharing that data you get this kind of
it plays nicely with the sizes of data
sets that okay this is good at right now
and starts to demonstrate the benefit if
we can have like two disparate teams
sharing their caches and start to pull
pull modules from each other's caches
rather than from central registry that
would be a good demonstration but yeah I
think I spoke to Andrew about it and he
was like I think that would
work would fit in the purview of the
package managers team and it would be a
good thing for us to look at so I've
kind of left it there it seemed like
something we should reach out to them
and be like hey this one might be a good
thing
Oh potentially an easy way to have like
a lazy and I have cash in that you don't
need to keep everything on disk if you
got old versions that you're not like
seeing any active downloads then you
could almost like wipe them all away and
assume that someone else has them on
their equivalent thing and let IVFs take
care of all of the the actual like oh
well if this isn't it isn't here I'll go
load it kind of things also like I would
group it as a slightly separate bit of
work to MPN on ipfs like the tar balls
themselves hopefully have the same CID
and so the same work gets done
collectively
eventually but trying to turn the Fleck
poke all of those things together just
makes it a lot harder than trying to
kind of let them do their own
implementation of ipfs support for
whatever measure that is Jim teams like
publishing their cache of like M PM's
that they that they are using seems like
I D least case for IP NS so they dropped
that cid into a penis entry updated
constantly then they can they can other
teams can subscribe to that and then
they can synchro caches I'm not sure how
much Elliott you've looked into this
more than me do they allow publishing of
your own stuff to it or is it entirely a
proxy the it supports private and local
modules so they runs into a potential
issue of security and like proof of
where did this come from
get area the more like yeah things my
assumption was the the minimal feature
would be a diaper storage in that is
careful not to publish all those your
private modules or encrypt them with you
know you share your shared key yeah then
then it's actually it's for free the
ship with the using IPS to sync various
teams furnitures again I wonder whether
cluster might be a good solution for
that cooking once you got a CID and
Canadian two clusters
there's something interesting here in
addition like we can kind of face this
it's like doing doing like research and
prototyping and then like also trying to
talk to more people in the space to see
if there's enthusiasm excitement that's
what I stuff but I think in addition to
a lot of individual machines kind of
charting part of a package manager
registry that they're using also being
able to like have how the a machine
that's kind of doing heavy lifting and
caching is something that like people
might click on the idea that oh there's
now of course we have that like server
that's like running that we use for our
test appointments or demos or whatever
or it's like just one one of the
engineer's particular has a machine like
I think many workplace setups end up
with that sort of model where there's
like a thing that's not kind of
constantly coming on and off and on and
off and on and off which is maybe a
little bit tricky from the like pure
routing use case but having a single
kind of local server that's doing that
like caches everything and lots of
groups pull from and like there should
be some configuration option of like do
you want to take like a slice of
everything or do you want to take like
everything that's relevant to your group
so it's still like kind of enable those
two different use cases with the same
sort of active less node configuration
right what do you think of doing like us
like doing our own sort of tailored
subset of just like all the NPM s that
are required to build ipfs and like
everything we use in our organization
and the dependencies for those so we
could you know do it offline demo for
example like you'd be like you know
unplug the network and then everybody's
able to work for a day like it wouldn't
be all of NPM it would just be enough of
NPM that but I think it would still be a
fair amount of work actually
you know figure out what that subset
should be and have enough and plus it's
always constantly updating cos
many small dependencies think and PMO
likely less probably has at least that
in it already yeah I believe you could
use I mean I have used M p.m. on ipfs to
install everything fire ipfs like he
already works is painfully slow but you
you can you can use it but could you
drop just the subset that's needed on a
hard drive and ignore all the other
stuff I guess that's what I'm saying so
you need the index file hours as well as
the the packages themselves because NPM
needs to be able to query something and
I be the NPM on my office basically will
store the last time it queried the thing
onto its own local MF s for those
indexes right Alex is not English so
yeah you can once you've installed it
once you can unplug and you could
install again and in theory you could
change it to a version that you already
had like an older version and it should
be able to assuming the old version
doesn't then declare some dependencies
that you don't have in your cache
because things might be round quite a
lot that you like that already works
without needing any kind of extra
configuration or like most of these
proxies work lazily so you just like
plug your request your set of packages
through it and then it will cache it
forever like you don't need to try and
manually keep a list of those things
the and I believe
you it would even work like if I had
done it and as long as what JSI PFS
don't have the DHD so you're gonna have
to plug everyone together on an offline
network but that's the only thing that's
stopping it from being like equivalent
to a completed thing I think yeah I
guess my user story would be you know a
bunch of octopus developers beaten
Vancouver or somewhere we go off to a
cabin in the woods with this note no
internet it's like we want to be able to
just take one hard drive that has all
the dependencies on it and figure it out
when we get there you know you mean like
all that all the packages for NPM you
want to take or do you want to just take
all the needed dependencies just the
needed dependencies that we need to be
productive for a weekend in the woods
yeah so I guess like the only thing that
you need the only missing part of that
story right now is that how do you get
people's laptops to connect to each
other
whilst not having a DHT we have to eat
some code no I I think we could figure
that out so I think because they could
just they could just swarm connector II
yeah well just custom bootstrap list
yeah so I think the thing is like you
shop in the woods and then there's like
the one dependency you need to build all
the packages that no but that we forgot
to think before you left
yeah also that was the exactly use case
that we had in mind for the ipfs camp to
turn off the turn off the Wi-Fi wait no
don't do that blocked access to the
bigger the bigger net yeah D prioritize
the PTP over blue to say my finest time
but like say we did this team verdad CEO
a thing and we had you know people just
using it we'd have those lists of
packages automatically yeah
I was thinking so I had the same thought
when I was investigating without chair
and then it occurs to me that the
there's a bit of work to do to integrate
with the Dutch show which is worth us
doing or or encouraging without chair to
do but I think there's a component of
ipfs on NPM that is the registry proxy
Alex maybe you could answer this that if
we were to run that on a known server we
could just set as a registry proxy for
the team like do we have to do the
worked interview but that sure or do we
already have all the pieces we need in
NPM on our pivot I propose return for
obviously Langer the nice cube that you
care about you I guess you also then
trusting that you're trusting the NPM on
a PFS registry like you put another
party in the middle of it if you had've
adachi oh basically go like I fetch
something from NPM registry as a proxy
and then I stored it both on disk and on
ipfs I only trust my own like I trust
what I just did and then if I need to
get that back later like I can delete my
table but I can always get it back from
ipfs conveniently the jeaious the
registry jester ipfs dot IO registry has
a copy of everything that is hosted on
ipfs so I can always plug it from there
you could definitely like I just wonder
if there if especially as video is aimed
at companies saying like let's wedge
another trusted entity in the middle of
it is going to be the like it it
definitely would could work that way
like from a technical point of view but
from a social point of view companies
are already like struggling to trust
registries as it is and will pay money
for like essays and things from
enterprise offerings
if you say like well if you trust that
the service that we're running it is
open-source but there's no guarantee
that that is running on the like you'd
have to do all the work to confirm that
yes well again by talking to the
registry and comparing to make sure that
you got the same C IDs for all of of
things but for demo where yes you could
do that
I can also you get each and each packing
them has has sha hashes for you can get
those from main Indian and then just
just come over and all you are you
talking are you thinking about the data
to the to the end users client over dot
you to the registry over that YouTube
Adachi oh like there's a few different
NPM on like BFS could talk to video and
potentia could be set up to be like I
can I can Pierre was so in the simplest
case I was thinking just add an IP FS
storage mechanism to the Nazi oku and
have them connects to each other
deliberately so if a thousand companies
spin up and their own ambien proxy then
each one's subset each one's cat local
cache becomes a shared co-hosted
communal cache and with no not like it
would be nice to integrate NPM I listen
to it but in the simplest case like just
NPM talking to a registry proxy and then
get that working and then figure out
more elaborate integrations I'm glad
you're on the same page in theory then
NP on on NPM on ipfs would be able to go
like well I I've got the CID from the
the registry document that we ran but
then when I went to get that's the ID I
got it from a nearby video oblivious to
the fact that that happened so yeah
you're talking about that
bootstrap the the network of packaged
houses rather than transport every
different hop should be ipfs Oh save my
thought for next week Noel the Queen
Molly I've been thinking about how we
can do two things one effectively
communicate with all of the package
manager humans who are starting to be
like oh IP us is working on package
managers interesting I wonder what that
means
I wonder what an IP FS Howard package
manager can and should look like and
then to you know when when we start
talking to those humans and like
bringing them into the community do a
good job of like percolating their needs
and their asks to all the other working
groups and so a thought for the first
one is that I think it'd be really
useful if we had like our our vision or
our stages of visions for what ipfs
powered package maintainer Ares can and
should look like kind of written down
somewhere where there's like well you
know here's here's like the easiest
conception where it's just like I don't
know just using I killed thee as a data
model or just you know hashing and
content dressing packages or something
like that like here's here's like basic
and then like you know medium mode where
you're using it as a transport and does
XYZ wonderful things and like extra
crazy amazing interplanetary mode you
have like a couple of different
varieties given their many different
types of package manager is like what it
takes what it would look like if you ya
blew your mind with ipfs in a package
manager and because I think like right
now when package managers are are trying
to wrap their heads around what adding
ipfs means they kind of need it
elucidated for them they need they need
like the visualization of what of what
they can look forward to to like spark
their imagination maybe they come up
with something different but it'd be
really useful if there was something we
that it said these sorts of things
because otherwise you have to explain
them like kind of one-off be this is why
it would be so exciting and what it
would do and like here you have all the
same normal like reasonable questions
about how the heck would that even work
you can put people somewhere and then
vice versa when people start talking to
us it'd be cool if we can invite more
people to either those conversations or
to watch those conversations or
something so that we can kind of
percolate the hey here's what package
managers need that you can like hear it
in their own words and like understand
what they're doing from kind of like a
user research perspective and super
common to just like you know bring
people to the user and make that
connection directly and helps a lot in
making the needs and challenges real to
people instead of just like you know a
list of asks on a sheet which sometimes
don't get quite as much uptake as we
need them to right that's that's
definitely my plan for the next few
weeks is to turn my brainstorm into
something that's useful to someone who
has no contact with us to be able to go
like okay yes I understand that the
levels of the parts that play into this
and then eventually connect that to how
people have done it already and can do
it in the future use a research e1 and
maybe she'll be able to help out with
that as well we can talk about NPM on
IPS desktop next week all right thank
you very much everyone see you on the
Internet